.\" dummy line
.TH DRSCHEME JR 1 "28 October 1999"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
drscheme-jr \- The Rice PLT Scheme programming shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B drscheme-jr
[
.I Xflag ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I DrScheme Jr 
is the Rice University PLT Scheme
programming shell.  It is the text-only version of the
.I DrScheme
programming environment.  
.PP
.I DrScheme Jr
treats its command line arguments as filenames and loads them after
starting up.
.SH OPTIONS

Startup file and expression switches:
.TP
.BI \-l \ language ,\ \-\-language \ language
Set the language to one of the following:
Beginner Intermediate Advanced R4RS+ MzScheme.
.TP
.BR  \-\-case\-sens \ { on , off }
Enable/disable case-sensitive symbols and variables
.TP
.BR \-\-set\-undef \ { on , off }
Enable/disable set! on undefined variables
.TP
.BR \-\-auto\-else \ { on , off }
Enable/disable non-matching cond/case produces (void)
.TP 
.BR \-\-improper\-lists \ { on , off }
Enable/disable improper lists
.TP
.BR \-\-print\-sharing \ { on , off }
Enable/disable show sharing in values
.TP
.BR \-\-print\-list \ { on , off }
Enable/disable use `list' where appropriate in constructor style printing
.TP
.BR  \-\-signal\-undef \ { on , off }
Enable/disable error if using #<undefined> variable
.TP
.BR \-\-boolean\-conds \ { on , off }
Enable/disable conditionals must be #t or #f
.TP
.BR \-\-eq\-syms \ { on , off }
Enable/disable eq? only for symbols
.TP
.BR \-\-tag\-inexacts \ { on , off }
Enable/disable print inexact numbers with #i
.TP
.BR \-\-whole\-frac \ { on , off }
Enable/disable separate whole and fractional parts of exact numbers in printer
.TP
.BR \-\-constructor\-printing \ { on , off }
Enable/disable print values using constructor style input syntax
.TP
.BR \-\-quasi\-printing \ { on , off }
Enable/disable print values using quasi-quote style input syntax
.TP
.BI \-\-choose
Interactively choose the language level
.TP
.BI \-\-save\ \ \ 
Save current settings to ~/.drscheme-jr.settings
.TP
.BI \-\-show\ \ \ 
Show the current settings
.TP
.BI \-\-lhelp \ language
Show the flags implied by a particular language
.TP
.B \-\-help,\ \-h
Show help
.TP 
.B \-\-\ \ \ \ \ 
Do not treat any remaining argument as a flag (at this level)

.PP
Multiple single-letter flags can be combined after one `-'.
For example, `-h-' is the same as `-h --'
If ~/.drscheme-jr.settings exists, it initializes the language settings.

.pp
For further information on
.I DrScheme Jr,
please consult the on-line
documentation and other information available at
.PP
.ce 1
http://www.cs.rice.edu/CS/PLT/packages/drschemejr/
.SH FILES
.I DrScheme Jr
looks for its libraries using the environment variables
PLTHOME and PLTCOLLECTS.  If this variable is not defined,
the installation directory is assumed (usually
"/usr/local/lib/plt/").  See the documentation for details.
.PP
Please consult your local administrator to determine whether
the on-line documentation has been installed locally.
.SH BUGS
Submit bug reports via
.ce 1
http://www.cs.rice.edu/CS/PLT/Bugs/ (encouraged)
or by e-mail to
.ce 1
plt-bugs@cs.rice.edu (discouraged)
.SH AUTHOR
.I DrScheme Jr
was implemented by Robby Findler (robby@cs.rice.edu),
Shriram Krishnamurthi (shriram@cs.rice.edu), Cormac Flanagan 
(cormac@cs.rice.edu), Matthew Flatt (mflatt@cs.rice.edu),
and Paul Steckler (steck@cs.rice.edu).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR drscheme(1),
.BR mred(1),
.BR mzscheme(1)
