\" dummy line
.TH MRED 1 "16 March 2000"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
mred \- The PLT Graphical Scheme implementation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mred
[
.I X option ...
]
[
.I option ...
] [
.I argument ...
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I MrEd
is the PLT's graphical Scheme
implementation.
It embeds and extends 
.I MzScheme
with a graphical user interface (GUI) toolbox.
.PP
.I DrScheme
is the graphical development environment for creating
.I MzScheme
and
.I MrEd
applications.

.SH X OPTIONS

MrEd accepts the following standard
.I X flags
:
.B -display
.IR disp ,
.B -geometry
.IR geom ,
.B -bg
.IR color ,
.B -background
.IR color ,
.B -fg
.IR color ,
.B -foreground
.IR color ,
.B -fn
.IR font ,
.B -font
.IR font ,
.BR -iconic ,
.B -name
.IR name ,
.BR -rv ,
.BR -reverse ,
.BR +rv ,
.B -selectionTimeout
.IR time ,
.BR -synchronous ,
.B -title
.IR name ,
.B -xnllanguage
.IR lang ,
.B -xrm
.IR file .
These flags must appear before all other flags.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS

Startup file and expression switches:
.TP
.BI \-e \ expr
Evaluates
.I expr
after
.I MrEd
starts.
.TP
.BI \-f \ file
Loads
.I file
after
.I MrEd
starts.
.TP
.BI \-d \ file
Load/cds
.I file
after
.I MrEd
starts.
.TP
.B \-F
.br
Loads all remaining arguments after
.I MrEd
starts.
.TP
.B \-D
.br
Load/cds all remaining arguments after
.I MrEd
starts.
.TP
.BI \-l \ file
Same as
.BR -e \ '(require-library\ "\|\c
.I file\|\c
")'.
.TP
.BI \-L \ file \  coll
Same as
.BR -e \ '(require-library\ "\|\c
.I file\|\c
" "\|\c
.I coll\|\c
")'.
.TP
.B \-r, --script
Script mode: use as last flag for scripts.
Same as
.BR -fmv- .
.TP
.B \-i, --script-cd
Like -r, but also sets the directory.
Same as 
.BR -dmv- .
.TP
.B \-z, --stdio
Use stdio REPL. Same as
.BR -ve \ '(read-eval-print-loop)'.
.TP
.B \-w, --awk
Same as
.B -l
.BR awk.ss .
.PP

Initialization switches:
.TP
.B \-x, --no-lib-path
Does not try to set current-library-collection-paths.
.TP
.B \-q, --no-init-file
Does not try to load "~/.MrEdrc".
.PP

Language setting switches:
.TP
.B \-g, --case-sens
Identifiers and symbols are initially case-sensitive.
.TP
.B \-c, --esc-cont
Call/cc is replaced with call/ec.
.TP
.B \-s, --set-undef
Set! works on undefined identifiers.
.TP
.B \-a, --no-auto-else
Fall-through cond or case is an error.
.TP
.B \-n, --no-key
Keywords are not enforced.
.TP
.B \-y, --hash-percent-syntax
Only #% syntactic forms are present.
.TP
.B \-p, --persistent
Catches AIX SIGDANGER (low page space) signal. (AIX only)
.PP

Miscellaneous switches:
.TP
.B \--
.br
No argument following this switch is used as a switch.
.TP
.B \-m, --mute-banner
Suppresses
.BR -v / --version
text.
.TP
.B \-v, --version
Suppresses the read-eval-print loop, prints version.
.TP
.B \-h, --help
Shows help for command-line arguments and exits, ignoring other switches.
.TP
.BI \-R file ,\ --restore \ file
Restores an image; must be the only switch. (Special versions only)
.PP
Multiple single-letter switches can be collapsed, with arguments placed
after the collapsed switches; the first collapsed switch cannot be
.BR -- .
E.g.:
.B -vfme file expr
is the same as
.B -v -f file -m -e
.BR expr .
.PP
Extra arguments following the last switch are put into the Scheme global
variable `argv' as a vector of strings. The name used to start 
.I MrEd
is put into the global variable `program' as a string.
.PP
Extra arguments after a 
.B --restore
file are returned as a vector of
strings to the continuation of the `write-image-to-file' call that created
the image.
.PP
Expressions/files are evaluated/loaded in order as provided.
.PP
The current-library-collections-paths parameter is automatically set before any
expressions/files are evaluated/loaded, unless the
.B -x
or
.B --no-lib-path
switch is used.  
.PP
.PP
For further information on
.IR MrEd ,
please consult the on-line
documentation and other information available at
.PP
.ce 1
http://www.cs.rice.edu/CS/PLT/packages/MrEd/
.SH FILES
The file "~/.mredrc" is loaded before any provided
expressions/files are evaluated/loaded, unless the
.B -q 
or 
.B --no-init-file 
switch is used.
.PP
The library collections search path is read
from the PLTCOLLECTS environment variable
(as a colon-separated list of paths). Wherever the empty path
appears appears in PLTCOLLECTS, it is replaced with the default
collections directory. If PLTCOLLECTS is not defined, the default
collections directory is used as the only element in the search path.
.PP
.I MrEd
looks for the default collections directory as one of the 
following (tried in order):
.IP
The path in the environment variable PLTHOME is checked
for a "collects" subdirectory.
.IP
If
.I MrEd
was invoked with an absolute pathname, the directory
of the invoked executable is checked. If the executable 
is a link, the directory of the referenced file is also 
checked, recursively following links.
.IP
If
.I MrEd
is invoked with a relative pathname, the
directories in the PATH environment variable containing
a file with the name of the program as invoked (usually
"MrEd") are checked. Links are followed as in the 
first case.
.IP
The "/usr/local/lib/plt/collects" directory is 
tried.
.PP
Please consult your local administrator to determine whether
the on-line documentation has been installed locally.
.SH BUGS
Submit bug reports via
.ce 1
http://www.cs.rice.edu/CS/PLT/Bugs/ (encouraged)
or by e-mail to
.ce 1
plt-bugs@cs.rice.edu (discouraged)
.SH AUTHOR
.I MrEd
was implemented by Matthew Flatt (mflatt@cs.utah.edu) with
Robert Bruce Findler (robby@cs.rice.edu) and
John Clements (clements@cs.rice.edu), based on
MzScheme.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mzscheme(1),
.BR drscheme(1),
.BR drscheme-jr(1)
